---
title: "[]{#_urcwq4z7wc3h .anchor}**Become a Front End Developer** "
---

**with Altimetrik \| 2nd Edition**

**Documentation**

\[Vanessa Martínez\]

Index

***Agile Software Development Methodologies***

*Agile software development, or "Agile", refers to a group of
development methodologies that anticipates the need for flexibility,
where requirements and solutions evolve through collaboration between
self-organizing cross-functional teams to the delivery of the finished
product. It focuses on the clean and fast delivery of individual pieces
or parts of the software and not on the entire application.*

*Some benefits:*

*\
- The ability to help teams in a complex area while it's still focused
on the delivery of business value.*

*- Improves efficiency throughout the organization as teams work
together and understand their specific roles in the process.*

*- Companies can trust on who are using agile methodologies because they
can feel they are releasing a high-quality product since testing is
performed throughout development.*

*- Provide the opportunity to make changes as needed and alert teams to
any potential issues*

*´.*

***Types of Agile frameworks***

***Scrum***

*Scrum is a lightweight framework, not a methodology, that helps people,
teams and organizations to self-organize, and is applied a set of good
practices to work together and obtain the best results, generating value
by solving complex problems. It replaces a programmed algorithmic
approach with a heuristic one (a set of techniques to solve a problem).*

***Roles and process:***

![](vertopal_b119fc22fc794bf3b3987020023ae754/media/image4.jpg){width="6.398921697287839in"
height="3.6093755468066493in"}

***Kanban***

*Kanban is a form to organize tasks with cards on a board that has no
limit.*

*You can have a few columns to pass, beginning on the 'backlog' column,
constantly updated, once the task has begun, you can move the cards to
another column called 'in progress', or similar, and then through the
correspondent columns until it is 'done'.*

![](vertopal_b119fc22fc794bf3b3987020023ae754/media/image3.png){width="6.05625in"
height="2.9407753718285212in"}

***"Scrum is a technique and Kanban is a specific form to apply it"***

***Extreme Programming (XP)***

*Extreme programming is a framework that aims to produce higher quality
software. XP is the most specific of the agile frameworks regarding
appropriate engineering practices.*

*XP has 5 values:*

-   *Simplicity*

-   *Communication*

-   *Feedback*

-   *Courage*

-   *Respect*

-   

*Rules of XP:*

![](vertopal_b119fc22fc794bf3b3987020023ae754/media/image1.png){width="3.38125in"
height="3.220238407699038in"}

***Git***

*Git is a function that controls code's versions in distributive form
that is an important part of daily programming. It allows you to have a
complete version history in a fast and free way, this system works with
branches and these branches can grow up in different directions from the
main one to try out new functionalities.*

***Git commands more common***

-   ***Git clone:** It's a command that makes an identical copy of the
    > latest version of a project in your local workspace.*

*git clone \<https://name-of-the-repository-link\>*

-   ***Git branch:** It's used to create, list and delete branches.*

*To create one locally, you use: git branch \<branch-name\>*

*To push it into the remote repository, you use: git push -u \<remote\>
\<branch-name\>*

*To list or view it, you use: git branch or git branch \--list*

*To delete it, you use: git branch -d \<branch-name\>*

-   ***Git Checkout:** It's mostly used for switching from one branch to
    > another and for checking out files and commits.*

*git checkout \<name-of-your-branch\>*

*You can also use another command to create and switch a branch at the
same time:\
*

*git checkout -b \<name-of-your-branch\>*

-   ***Git Status:** It gives you all the information about branches and
    > files, gathering information like the if the preset branch is up
    > to date, if there is anything to commit, pull or push, if there
    > are files created, modified or deleted.*

*git status*

-   ***Git Add:** If we create, make a change or erase files, those
    > changes will be on our workspace and won't be in the next commit.
    > To save it we have to use this command to include those changes
    > into the next commit.*

*To add a file: git add \<file\>*

*To add everything at once: git add -A*

-   ***Git Commit:** It's a command used to save changes we have done
    > after a specific task or issue on our local workspace. We need to
    > write a short message to explain what we did in the source code.*

*git commit -m \"commit message\"*

-   ***Git Push:** It sends your changes to the remote server which
    > already are committed.*

*git push \<remote\> \<branch-name\>*

*If your branch is new and you need to upload it too, you can use: git
push \--set-upstream \<remote\> \<name-of-your-branch\> or git push -u
origin \<branch_name\>*

-   ***Git Pull:** It's used to get updates from the remote repository
    > and applies the latest changes in your local.*

*git pull \<remote\>*

-   ***Git Revert:** It's used to undo changes in a safe way.*

*First we have to see our commit history, using: git log \-- oneline*

*Then specify the hash code of the commit that we want to undo: git
revert 3321844*

*Finish pressing shift + q to exit.*

*Really, this command doesn\'t delete the commit from the history, just
create a new "revert" one, you can still see every single move that you
did.*

-   ***Git Merge:** when everything is working ok, it's used to
    > integrate your feature branch with all of its commits back to the
    > dev branch.*

*Before merging, you have to switch to the dev branch: git checkout dev*

*Then update it using: git fetch*

*At the end, merge your feature branch into dev: git merge
\<branch-name\>*

***Tags and Commits***

*Tags is a feature used to specify a point on a repository. It's mostly
used to keep the release version of a repo, using this tag you are able
to move it to an earlier version.*

*git status*

*git add \<file\>*

*git commit -m "short message"*

*git tag v-1.0 \<the correspondent version\>*

*git tag -n*

*A **tag** can be created to a specific **commit** too, to create it,
follow the commands bellow:*

*git status*

*git add \<file\>*

*git commit -m "short message"*

*git log \-- oneline*

***Stash command***

*We can use **git stash** when we want to temporarily record our current
state of the working directory, saving our local modifications away, to
manage this copy on another side, here we can make the changes needed
without damaging the main and feeling overwhelmed, when everything is
fine, you can put it back on the original one.*

***Hooks***

*They are scripts that run every time a certain important action occurs
in a repo. Exist two groups of these hooks:*

-   ***Client-side hooks:** are activated by operations such as
    > committing and merging.*

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   ***Server-side hooks:** run on network operations such as receiving
    > pushed commits.*

*The most useful local hooks:*

-   *pre-commit*

-   *prepare-commit-msg*

-   *commit-msg*

-   *post-commit*

-   *post-checkout*

-   *pre-rebase*

***Git rebase and squash***

***Rebase:** When we have 2 different features branches to include in
the main one, mostly you will get conflict errors. If a feature branch
doesn't consider the other one, bugs cloud appear in a feature branch.*

*Using git rebase, it will change the base of a branch, not create
another original point, just putting that on a different point in time.*

![](vertopal_b119fc22fc794bf3b3987020023ae754/media/image2.png){width="3.401042213473316in"
height="2.179673009623797in"}

*To get it, use something like this:\
git checkout featureA*

*git fetch origin*

*git rebase origin/main Rebase the latest \"main\" to \"Feature A\"*

*git checkout main*

*git merge featureA*

***Squash:** It's used to merge all your commits of one feature branch
into a single commit, and then you can put it at the end of the main
branch.*

![](vertopal_b119fc22fc794bf3b3987020023ae754/media/image5.png){width="3.4051279527559055in"
height="2.182292213473316in"}

*To get it, first you have to rebase and then add:\
git merge featureA \--squash Squash \"Feature A\" to end of main*

***Difference between git merge - git rebase***

-   *Rebase reapplies commits of the top of another base branch (rewrite
    > it).*

-   *Merge joins two or more development histories together (preserved
    > history as it happened).*

***Javascripts (JS)***

***Javascripts** is a dynamic programming language used for web
development, without this program all that you have is **HTML** and
**CSS.** Those are called "markup languages" rather than programming
languages.*

*With Javascripts you will have more versatility to create style
declarations, supporting math calculations, extracts contents from
another website, and more.*

*It has more features we can explain, but by understanding the basic
constructs you can begin to use it, and learn more and more while you
are working with it.*

*Somethings that you should know are:*

-   ***How to use JavaScript in HTML: it can be used in several
    > forms:***

> *1. Inline JavaScript*
>
> *2. Internal JavaScript, with the script tag*
>
> *3. External JavaScript*

-   ***Data Types in JavaScript***

1.  *Number*

2.  *String (interpolating variables and multiline)*

3.  *Boolean*

4.  *Array*

5.  *Object*

6.  *Undefined*

7.  *Null*

8.  *Function*

-   ***Variables, comments and functions in Javascripts:** by
    > understanding how those last one work, you are ready to start to
    > use Javascripts.*

**Bibliography**

-   [[https://www.techtarget.com/searchsoftwarequality/definition/agile-software-development]{.ul}](https://www.techtarget.com/searchsoftwarequality/definition/agile-software-development)

-   [[https://www.cprime.com/resources/what-is-agile-what-is-scrum/\#:\~:text=Agile%20software%20development%20refers%20to%20a%20group%20of%20software%20development,%2Dorganizing%20cross%2Dfunctional%20teams]{.ul}](https://www.cprime.com/resources/what-is-agile-what-is-scrum/#:~:text=Agile%20software%20development%20refers%20to%20a%20group%20of%20software%20development,%2Dorganizing%20cross%2Dfunctional%20teams).

-   [[https://www.scrum.org/resources/what-is-scrum]{.ul}](https://www.scrum.org/resources/what-is-scrum)

-   [[https://lucidspark.com/blog/different-types-of-scrum-meetings]{.ul}](https://lucidspark.com/blog/different-types-of-scrum-meetings)

-   [[https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/xp/\#q=\~]{.ul}](https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/xp/#q=~)(infinite\~false\~filters\~(postType\~(\~\'post\~\'aa_book\~\'aa_event_session\~\'aa_experience_report\~\'aa_glossary\~\'aa_research_paper\~\'aa_video)\~tags\~(\~\'xp))\~searchTerm\~\'\~sort\~false\~sortDirection\~\'asc\~page\~1)

-   [[https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/what-is-extreme-programming]{.ul}](https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/what-is-extreme-programming)

-   [[https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/10-important-git-commands-that-every-developer-should-know/]{.ul}](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/10-important-git-commands-that-every-developer-should-know/)

-   [[https://openwebinars.net/blog/que-es-git-y-para-que-sirve/]{.ul}](https://openwebinars.net/blog/que-es-git-y-para-que-sirve/)

-   [[https://linuxhint.com/add-tag-specific-commit-git/]{.ul}](https://linuxhint.com/add-tag-specific-commit-git/)

-   [[https://git-scm.com/docs/git-stash]{.ul}](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-stash)

-   [[https://www.perforce.com/blog/vcs/git-beyond-basics-stashing-work-progress\#:\~:text=Using%20the%20git%20stash%20command,more%20easily%20switch%20between%20branches]{.ul}](https://www.perforce.com/blog/vcs/git-beyond-basics-stashing-work-progress#:~:text=Using%20the%20git%20stash%20command,more%20easily%20switch%20between%20branches).

-   [[https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-hooks\#:\~:text=Git%20hooks%20are%20scripts%20that,in%20the%20development%20life%20cycle]{.ul}](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-hooks#:~:text=Git%20hooks%20are%20scripts%20that,in%20the%20development%20life%20cycle).

-   [[https://medium.com/swlh/squash-and-rebase-git-basics-5cb1be1e0dac\#:\~:text=With%20%E2%80%9Csquash%E2%80%9D%2C%20you%20can,they\'re%20now%20just%201]{.ul}](https://medium.com/swlh/squash-and-rebase-git-basics-5cb1be1e0dac#:~:text=With%20%E2%80%9Csquash%E2%80%9D%2C%20you%20can,they're%20now%20just%201).

-   [[https://betterprogramming.pub/differences-between-git-merge-and-rebase-and-why-you-should-care-ae41d96237b6\#:\~:text=Reading%20the%20official%20Git%20manual,it%20happened%2C%20rebase%20rewrites%20it%20]{.ul}](https://betterprogramming.pub/differences-between-git-merge-and-rebase-and-why-you-should-care-ae41d96237b6#:~:text=Reading%20the%20official%20Git%20manual,it%20happened%2C%20rebase%20rewrites%20it%20).

-   [[https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-is-javascript-definition-of-js/]{.ul}](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-is-javascript-definition-of-js/)

-   
